Lee Phillip Gent, MSci

_Personal Details_
Address: 22 Morse Close, Chippenham, SN15 3FY, UK
E-mail: lee@leegent.net
Telephone: +44 7748 183797


_Programming Skills_
Languages: C++, C, C#, PHP, XML, Python, Obj-C, SQL, ECMAScript, Java, HTML & CSS
Toolkits & APIs: Qt 4, STL & TR1, gSOAP, Boost, Win32, POSIX, .NET, VxWorks, SQLite
Technologies: OOP, SOAP & Web Services, BSD Sockets
Environments & Tools: Visual Studio 200x, Eclipse, GCC, XCode, Subversion, Git
Operating Systems: Windows (all versions & Server 2003), Linux, OS X, Solaris 10


_Objective_
Software Engineering position where knowledge and use of object-oriented programming principles, modern tools, networking experience, excellent problem-solving skills and a passion for technology can be used to help create high-quality software products.


_Employment_
Aria Networks Ltd; Lead Software Architect; 2009 -- current
Led a team in the design and development of the second major version of the flagship, portable network planning software with a full plugin/component-based architecture.  Built with C++ & Qt 4.
Supported teams performing sustained development of all company products at every level (requirements, architecture, design & development).
Supported company executive and sales teams in costing and effort estimations for new projects.
Developed critical features in a large, bespoke development project using ECMAScript.  Wrote SOAP client in C with gSOAP.
Ported performance-critical portions of ECMAScript code to C++.

Aria Networks Ltd; Lead Software Engineer; 2006 -- 2009
Designed, developed, maintained, deployed and supported a platform-portable GMPLS network planning and routing product based on genetic algorithms with desktop GUI written using Qt 4.  Used XML for data persistence.
Supported a small team with sustained development and forking of the product into customised bespoke products.
Led a small team in the development of a bespoke, platform-portable network management and planning tool for a large network vendor.
Worked in a team to develop a bespoke real-time VxWorks GMPLS network routing engine in the C language for inclusion in an high-grade optical switch.  Required understanding and interface with customer software API.

Aria Networks, Applied InSilico & DNNI Ltd; IT & Network Administrator; 2003 -- current
Built and maintained physical and logical business infrastructure.
Responsible for wired & wireless Ethernet LAN, Windows Server 2003 AD PDC & Exchange Server 2003, MS IIS & RAS/VPN access.
Responsible for GNU/Linux servers running Apache & Lighttpd, MoinMoin wiki, Trac and Subversion servers.
Responsible for physical and logical workstation maintenance, network security, company software policy & strategy, procurement.

Applied InSilico Ltd; Lead Software Engineer; 2005 -- 2006
Tailored flagship artificial intelligence product for Life Sciences market.
Provided support for large customer deployment of the platform.
Added SOAP interface to platform and developed GUI client using new interface.
Designed next generation of product as fully extendible object-oriented/plugin-based system.
Developed software download bootstrap/auto-update mechanism to aid deployment and maintenance of product.

DNNI Ltd; Lead Software Engineer; 2003 -- 2005
Designed, developed, deployed and supported a distributed, high-performance, platform-portable artificial intelligence problem solving platform.
Platform included server-side (headless) component (C++), headless remote clients (C) and remote administration GUI (C#).
Utilised generic and bespoke, patented neural-network algorithms coupled with genetic algorithms.
Created and utilised a custom, bespoke TCP-based protocol to link components of the platform.
Developed a suite of support & aftermarket tools to accompany the platform.

Keele University; Computer Science Lab Demonstrator; 2001 -- 2003
Administered, monitored, provided assistance to and taught first year computer science students during their laboratory practical (Java programming) sessions.
Similarly for second year students; involved heavily with Java, OOP, PHP, XHTML, CSS & JavaScript.
One-on-one mentoring as well as group teaching.

Words WorldWide Ltd; Software Engineer; 2001 -- 2002
Designed, developed and maintained a variety of small software solutions and projects for internal use, utilising MFC 7 as well as distributed project management.
Maintained and sustained development of several business-critical applications, as well as designing and developing new tools to interface with third-party applications. Involved COM, Automation and NT Security.


_Education_
Keele University; Astrophysics & Computer Science; 1999 -- 2003; MSci. (Hons) -- Second Class First Division
Project work included building a distributed agent system & review of security systems.
Founder, Treasurer & Server Administrator of Student Computer Society.
Awarded Science Demonstrator Award for lab teaching activities.
Member of Staff-Student Liaison Committee, Halls of Residence Council.
Recognised as Microsoft Most Valuable Student for UK pilot programme.


_Referees_
Available on request.
